doc: nrf: app_dev: device_guides: PM deprecation updates (#29745)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/app_dev/device_guides/nrf91/nrf91_dt_partitions.rst

     Both the b0 and MCUboot are built separately and must also know about these partitions.
     You need to add a ``b0`` and ``mcuboot`` folder inside a ``sysbuild`` folder with a :file:`prj.conf` and the required overlay in a ``boards`` folder.
   * ``nrf91_crypto_partitions.dtsi`` - This layout works  for the full TF-M features without a bootloader.
     You can use it to test TF-M functionalities.

* There are two sample SRAM layouts:

   * ``nrf91_sram_partitions.dtsi`` - This layout works with minimal T-FM configurations.
     This layout is used by most samples.
   * ``nrf91_sram_crypto_partitions.dtsi``- This layout works for the full TF-M features.
     You can use it to test TF-M functionalities.

Creating a custom partition layout
**********************************

Instead of including these ``.dtsi`` files, you can copy their contents and modify them as required.

The flash memory uses 4 kB pages, so each partition must start on a 4 KB boundary and ideally be a multiple of 4 KB in size.
The flash memory has 32 kB blocks that can be marked as secure or non-secure.

> Any 32 kB block that contains a ``slot0_ns_partition``, ``slot1_ns_partition``, or ``storage_partition`` will be marked as non-secure.

Author: @degjorva can you verify this? I am not sure what TF-M marks as secure or non-secure, can we link to some documentation somewhere?

Author: I just realised `storage_partition` is also set to not executable, so it can't share a 32 kB block with slot0_ns_partition either. Might need to mention that as well. Not sure if it is setup correct in all .dtsi files.

Reviewer: same for the above comment.

Reviewer 2: I have a draft of documentation for TF-m partitioning here: https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/pull/29331

I would remove the "ideally" each partition must be a 4KB block in size. Anything else is pointless. And you are correct that storage_partition can not share a block with slot0_ns_partition.

.. _nrf91_dt_partitions:

> Configuring partitions on an nRF91x1 DK

Reviewer 3: This also applies to the 9160, so `nRF 91 series device` or what ever the official term  is

#######################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The default SRAM and Flash partition layouts in Zephyr allocate space for all Trusted Firmware-M (TF-M) features and require you to enable MCUboot.
As MCUboot is disabled by default in |NCS|, and the modem handles the security requirements, all applications are expected to set the partition tables using a devicetree overlay.
This ensures that the partitions match the actual requirements and maximizes the available memory for your application.

Including default partition layouts
***********************************

The easiest way is to include two of the ``.dtsi`` files from the :file:`nrf/dts/samples/cellular` folder to your board's :file:`.overlay` file.

.. code-block:: devicetree

   #include <samples/cellular/nrf91_no_bootloader_partitions.dtsi>

   #include <samples/cellular/nrf91_sram_partitions.dtsi>

* There are four sample flash layouts:

>    * ``nrf91_no_bootloader_partitions.dtsi`` - This layout works with minimal T-FM configurations without a bootloader.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   * ``nrf91_no_bootloader_partitions.dtsi`` - This layout works with minimal TF-M configurations without a bootloader.
```

     This layout is used by most samples.

>    * ``nrf91_bootloader_partitions.dtsi`` - This layout works with minimal T-FM setups that include MCUboot.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   * ``nrf91_bootloader_partitions.dtsi`` - This layout works with minimal TF-M setups that include MCUboot.
```

>    * ``nrf91_immutable_bootloader_partitions.dtsi`` - This layout works with minimal T-FM and both an :re:`bootloader` and an updatable MCUboot.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   * ``nrf91_immutable_bootloader_partitions.dtsi`` - This layout works with minimal TF-M and both an :re:`bootloader` and an updatable MCUboot.
```

     Both the b0 and MCUboot are built separately and must also know about these partitions.
     You need to add a ``b0`` and ``mcuboot`` folder inside a ``sysbuild`` folder with a :file:`prj.conf` and the required overlay in a ``boards`` folder.
   * ``nrf91_crypto_partitions.dtsi`` - This layout works  for the full TF-M features without a bootloader.
     You can use it to test TF-M functionalities.

* There are two sample SRAM layouts:

>    * ``nrf91_sram_partitions.dtsi`` - This layout works with minimal T-FM configurations.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   * ``nrf91_sram_partitions.dtsi`` - This layout works with minimal TF-M configurations.
```

     This layout is used by most samples.
   * ``nrf91_sram_crypto_partitions.dtsi``- This layout works for the full TF-M features.
     You can use it to test TF-M functionalities.

Creating a custom partition layout
**********************************

Instead of including these ``.dtsi`` files, you can copy their contents and modify them as required.

> The flash memory uses 4 kB pages, so each partition must start on a 4 KB boundary and ideally be a multiple of 4 KB in size.

Reviewer 3: Use either kB or KB, not both interchangeably

Reviewer: I have replaced with KB in all the places as K=1024 and k=1000.

.. _nrf91_dt_partitions:

Configuring partitions on an nrf91xx DK
#######################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The default SRAM and Flash partitions from Zephyr reserve room for all the T-FM features and require you to enabled MCUboot.
As MCUboot is disabled by default in NCS and the modem can handle the security requirements; all applications are expected to set the partition tables using a device tree overlay.
This will make sure the partitions that are present match the required partitions and that you have as much space as posible for your application.

Including default partition tables
**********************************

> The easiest way is to include 2 of the .dtsi files from nrf/dts/samples/cellular/

Author: Maybe add that this needs to be added in your boards `.overlay` file.

As MCUboot is disabled by default in |NCS|, and the modem handles the security requirements, all applications are expected to set the partition tables using a devicetree overlay.
This ensures that the partitions match the actual requirements and maximizes the available memory for your application.

Including default partition layouts
***********************************

The easiest way is to include two of the ``.dtsi`` files located in the :file:`nrf/dts/samples/cellular` folder.

.. code-block:: devicetree

   #include <samples/cellular/nrf91_no_bootloader_partitions.dtsi>

   #include <samples/cellular/nrf91_sram_partitions.dtsi>

* There are four sample flash layouts:

   * ``nrf91_no_bootloader_partitions.dtsi`` - This layout works with minimal T-FM configurations without a bootloader.
     This layout is used by most samples.
   * ``nrf91_bootloader_partitions.dtsi`` - This layout works with minimal T-FM setups that include MCUboot.
   * ``nrf91_immutable_bootloader_partitions.dtsi`` - This layout works with minimal T-FM and both an immutable bootloader (b0) and an updatable MCUboot.

>      Both the b0 and MCUboot are built separately and must also know about these partitions.

Author: maybe some links to |NSIB| https://nrfconnectdocs.nordicsemi.com/ncs/latest/nrf/samples/bootloader/README.html and MCUboot

     You need to add a ``b0`` and ``mcuboot`` folder inside a ``sysbuild`` folder with a :file:`prj.conf` and the required overlay in a ``boards`` folder.
   * ``nrf91_crypto_partitions.dtsi`` - This layout works  for the full TF-M features without a bootloader.
     You can use it to test TF-M functionalities.

* There are two sample SRAM layouts:

   * ``nrf91_sram_partitions.dtsi`` - This layout works with minimal T-FM configurations.
     This layout is used by most samples.
   * ``nrf91_sram_crypto_partitions.dtsi``- This layout works for the full TF-M features.
     You can use it to test TF-M functionalities.

Creating a custom partition layout
**********************************

Instead of including these ``.dtsi`` files, you can copy their contents and modify them as required.

The flash memory uses 4 kB pages, so each partition must start on a 4 KB boundary and ideally be a multiple of 4 KB in size.
The flash memory has 32 kB blocks that can be marked as secure or non-secure.

> Any 32 kB block that contains a ``slot0_ns_partition``, ``slot1_ns_partition``, or ``storage_partition`` will be marked as non-secure.

Author: Maybe we should add a bit more detail:
`Secure partitions may not share a 32 kB block with a non secure partition. Partitions that need to be accessed by the application need to  be (part of) the storage partition.`

Reviewer: @nordic-mare - I have updated the docs with the above details. Could you please check this : 
```
Secure partitions must not share a 32 kB block with any non-secure partition.
In addition, the ``storage_partition`` must not share a 32 kB block with the ``slot0_ns_partition``.
Any partitions that need to be accessed by the application must be part of (or included within) the storage partition.
```
```

Reviewer 3: The first line is fine as is.
For the storage partition and the non secure partition it seems like the flash region is only set to non-executable if the 32KB region is only used by the storage partition. This means that it should be fine to have them share a 32KB region, but I might be missing some details here.

Reviewer 2: I believe it is the opposite. The storage partition check is last, so it will be non-executable. The non-secure partition and the storage partition should not overlap.

Reviewer 3: They shouldn't overlap no, but can non-secure and storage use 16kB each from the same 32kB region?

Reviewer 2: I don't have a 91 to test with at the moment, but as far as I know no. The SPU region for exec controls is also 32 kB. So depending on which it is locked to you will either be able to exec code in the data region or not-exec code in the exec region. Both which are bad.

Reviewer 3: Fair enough. In that case the second line can be kept as is
